README.md, before:

# pgg-tournament
An Axelrod-inspired tournament among different strategies playing the public goods game. The tournament comprises all possible group combinations given a chosen group size, each group playing over a chosen number of rounds. The implementation can only run one tournament at a time.

## Banking modes
Banking modes can be specified under the `Bank` class in `game.py` in the `publicgoodsgame` module. Currently, 3 modes are supported but more can be added.
- `mode=0` multiplies the total contribution by `bankerx`, a chosen amount that must be less than the number of participants for this mode
- `mode=1` takes after Bowles & Gintis (2011), p.22, where contributions are first multiplied by `bankerx`, which must be less than 1, and then added to the original contributions
- `mode=2` takes after Fehr & Gächter (2002), p.137, where each player receives a fraction of every dollar contributed to the common pool. This fraction is again specified by `bankerx` which must be less than 1

## Strategies
Update 23/08/24: `RANDOM` has been added as a playable strategy but I have commented it out in the default list of players as it causes extreme variations in tournament results, ceteris paribus.

Strategies are stored in `strategies.py` in the `publicgoodsgame` module. More strategies can and will be added.
Strategies that calculate their next move based on other players' histories have an optional communist mode. When `iscommunist` is `True`, such a strategy will judge other players by comparing what they contributed against what they could afford, rather than against what it itself had contributed. Additionally, if `Game.mode` in `game.py` is set to 1, the 'average opponent' will be interpreted as the median player, rather than the mean player. 

Conceptually, both `Game.mode=1` and `iscommunist` require a world with perfect information, where each player knows the detailed accounts of every other player, rather than just the sum of all contributions. Currently, one strategy, `INCENDIO`, which punishes all for the perceived selfishness of one, would theoretically only be able to play in such a world, but no restriction is made in this implementation.

## Output
At any point in the tournament, a 3D-array of payouts (rounds, groups, players) and a 2D-array of payins (rounds, groups) can be accessed. Payins and payouts at the end of each round and the winner for each group are also printed. When the tournament ends, the total balances for each player, the names of the overall champion and sucker and a ranked list of players are printed.

## Results
Among the same players, tournament results seem to vary very widely depending on the number of rounds played and the group size. Changing the banking mode or the game mode seem to affect results less.

## Warning
If something looks wrong, it probably is. This is my first go at Python.

Commit message:

Cleaned up code. All strategies are now communist only so that results are more interesting. Updated `README`.

README.md, after:

# pgg-tournament
An Axelrod-inspired tournament among different strategies playing the public goods game. The tournament comprises all possible group combinations given a chosen group size, each group playing over a chosen number of rounds. The implementation can only run one tournament at a time.

## Strategies
Strategies are stored in `strategies.py` in the `publicgoodsgame` module. Most strategies are original, including PD strategies re-interpreted for this game.

## Output
Contributions and winnings are stored in NumPy arrays and can be viewed at any time. `main.py` generates a logarithmic graph of each player's balance over the course of the tournament.

## To-Do
- Make it possible for different players to play the same strategy
- Comment out player to exclude. Player values do not need to be in order
- Players can change their strategy
- In big groups with more cooperators with fewer `HYPOCRITE`s, the `HYPOCRITE`s can get away more easily, since the average becomes closer to the maximum average. Find the highest ratio of `HYPOCRITE`s over cooperators before `HYPOCRITE`s die. (This is a form of frequency dependent selection.)
